meanwhile the UN Security Council has
been holding an open debate on the
Israel Gaza war in his opening speech
the Secretary General reiterated calls
for an immediate ceasefire Antonio
gueras also highlighted the dire
situation of Palestinians living in
Gaza it is important to also recognize
the attacks by amas did not happen in a
vacuum the Palestinian people have been
subjected to 56 years of suffocating
occupation they have seen their land
steadily divor by settlements and
plagued by violence their economy
stiffled their people displaced and
their homes
demolished their hopes for a political
solution to their plight have been
Vanishing but the Grievances of the
Palestinian people cannot justify the
appalling attacks by amas and those
appalling attacks cannot justify the
collective punishment of the Palestinian
people Christen salumi is it the United
Nations in New York Kristen just just
letting you know that the United Arab
Emirates are probably going to speak
soonish and when that happens we'll be
carrying that live um Meanwhile we're
hearing reports that the Israeli foreign
minister who spoke at the UN a short
while ago cancelled his meeting with the
Secretary General of the UN what do you
know about
that yes he said as much on Twitter and
the UN Ambassador for Israel is also
tweeting that he wants the Secretary
General to resign uh the feeling is that
he was too dismissive of the uh attack
that Hamas waged on Israeli CI citizens
and civilians uh the quote from the
ambassador's Tweet says there is no
justification or point in talking to
those who show compassion for the most
terrible atrocities committed commed
against the citizens of Israel and the
Jewish people there are simply no words
you just heard the this uh quote from
the Secretary General you just heard
what he said and that actually is
precisely apparently what they are
referring to the fact that the Secretary
General who did let me reiterate in case
you didn't hear it did condemn hamas's
attack on civilians and said it was
unjustified but he also said it didn't
happen in a vacuum
uh the went on to say the Palestinian
people have been subjected to 56 years
of suffocating
occupation um that was the context for
their remarks and uh it looks as if
they've left the security Council
chamber at this
time and Kristen earlier we also heard
from the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin I want to hear a little bit of
what he had to say and get reaction on
the
back it means Israel must take all
possible possible precautions to avoid
harm to civilians it means food water
medicine and other essentially
humanitarian assistance must be able to
flow into Gaza and to the people who
need them it means civilians must be
able to get out of Harm's Way it means
humanitarian pauses must be considered
for these
purposes Kristen what did you make of
what blinkin had to
say well he is expressing the United
States support for respect of
international law international
humanitarian law and making the point
that the United States doesn't equate
Hamas with the civilian population uh of
Gaza that said the bulk of the first
part of his remarks dealt with hamas's
attack on Israel uh and the need to uh
fight terrorism in the region he
also talked about the need to uh prevent
Iran from further supporting Hamas and
other groups in the region he issued a
very strong warning uh to Iran and
called on other nations to uh basically
do the same to express their concern and
not let this uh War expand as he said uh
so more talk from the United States as
we've heard but also in appeal to the
other nations to work towards a
resolution in the security Council he
said that the United States had been
working closely and listening to uh
allies and other members of the council
in order to do just that an appeal there
for the uh International Community to
come together on a resolution of course
it was the United States that vetoed the
last resolution that was overwhelmingly
supported by council members uh
just less than a week ago uh but again
they are working on a new version um
that also calls for humanitarian relief
uh although in a weaker form than the
prior resolution did and has stronger
language uh against Hamas and backing
Israel's right to defend itself in the
country Kristen salumi reporting there
uh from the UN headquarters in New York
thank you very much Kristen we'll talk
to you again